README.md, before:

# Data Science Projects with Keras

[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

This repository contains a collection of data science projects that utilize artificial neural networks implemented in [Keras](https://github.com/keras-team/keras/). The projects are based on use cases from [Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/), [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/), and [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/).

The repository also introduces a minimal package called **ds_boost**, initially implemented as a helper for this repository.

This repository was initially developed in early 2018 and has since been updated with the best practices I've learned as a lead data scientist implementing solutions in a production environment. However, please note that this repository is being superseded by a new one that will contain LLM-based generative AI and containerized solutions. The new repository is currently in a private repository and will be published in the future. The new repository will be more class-oriented and will include smart ML-based models with explainability, confidence intervals, and generative AI-augmented dashboards.

## Scenarios
### Classification models

- [Enron Scandal](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/enron_scandal.ipynb) Identifies Enron employees who may have committed fraud

- [Property Maintenance Fines](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/property_maintenance_fines.ipynb) Predicts the probability of a set of blight tickets to be paid on time

- [Sentiment IMDB](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/sentiment_IMDB.ipynb)  Predicts positive or negative sentiments from movie reviews (NLP)


- [Spam detector](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/spam_detector.ipynb) Predicts the probability that a given email is a spam email (NLP)

- [Student Admissions](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/student_admissions.ipynb)  Predicts student admissions to graduate school at UCLA

- [Titanic](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/titanic.ipynb)  Predicts survival probabilities from the sinking of the RMS Titanic

### Regression models

- [Bike Rental](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/bike_rental.ipynb) Predicts daily bike rental ridership

- [House Prices](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/house_prices.ipynb) Predicts house sales prices from Ames Housing database

- [Simple tickets](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/simple_tickets.ipynb)  Predicts the number of tickets requested by different clients


### Recurrent models

- [Machine Translation](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/machine_translation.ipynb)  Translates sentences from English to French (NLP)

- [Simple Stock Prediction](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/simple_stock_prediction.ipynb) Predicts Alphabet Inc. stock price

- [Text generator](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/text_generator.ipynb) Creates an English language sequence generator (NLP)

### Social network models

- [Network](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/network.ipynb)  Predicts missing salaries and new email connections from a company's email network


## Setup & Usage
*Python 3.10+ required*

1. Clone the repository using `git`:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras.git
    ```

2. Enter to the root path of the repo and use or create a new conda environment:

```bash
$ conda create -n dev python=3.10 -y && conda activate dev
```

3. Install the package developed as a helper for this repo:
    ```bash
    pip install ds-boost
    ```

4. Open the desired project/s with [Jupyter Notebook](http://jupyter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html)
    ```bash
    cd data-science-keras
    jupyter notebook
    ```

## Development Mode
In the root folder of the cloned repository, install all the required dev packages and the ds-boost mini package (**Make** required):
```bash
make setup
```

To install tensorflow with GPU support, follow the instructions of this guide: [Install TensorFlow GPU](https://www.tensorflow.org/install/pip#install_cuda_with_apt).

QA (manual pre-commit):
```bash
make qa
```

###  Development Tools Required:

**A Container/Machine with Conda, Git and Poetry as closely as defined in `.devcontainer/Dockerfile`:**

- This Dockerfile contains a non-root user so the same configuration can be applied to a WSL Ubuntu Machine and any Debian/Ubuntu CLoud Machine (Vertex AI workbench, Azure VM ...)
- In case of having an Ubuntu/Debian machine with non-root user (e.g.: Ubuntu in WSL, Vertex AI VM ...), just install the tools from  *non-root user (no sudo)** section of `.devcontainer/Dockerfile`  (sudo apt-get install \<software\> may be required)
- A pre-configured Cloud VM usually has Git and Conda pre-installed, those steps can be skipped
- The development container defined in `.devcontainer/Dockerfile` can be directly used for a fast setup (Docker required).  With Visual Studio Code, just open the root folder of this repo, press `F1` and select the option **Dev Containers: Open Workspace in Container**. The container will open the same workspace after the Docker Image is built.


## Contributing

Check out the contributing guidelines

## License

`ds_boost` was created by Angel Martinez-Tenor. It is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.

## Credits

`ds_boost` was created from a Data Science Template developed by Angel Martinez-Tenor. The template was built upon `py-pkgs-cookiecutter` [template] (https://github.com/py-pkgs/py-pkgs-cookiecutter)

Commit message:

doc: Add motivation - repo using for updating older code

README.md, after:

# Data Science Projects with Keras
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

This repository contains a collection of data science projects that utilize artificial neural networks implemented in [Keras](https://github.com/keras-team/keras/). The projects are based on use cases from [Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/), [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/), and [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/).

The repository also introduces a minimal package called **ds_boost**, initially implemented as a helper for this repository.

The repository is currently being used to update Python versions and packages (such as TensorFlow) and test the effects on older code. As a result, changes may be needed in the functions to update the implementations.

This repository was initially developed in early 2018 and has since been updated with the best practices I've learned as a lead data scientist implementing solutions in a production environment. However, please note that this repository is being superseded by a new one that will contain LLM-based generative AI and containerized solutions. The new repository is currently in a private repository and will be published in the future. The new repository will be more class-oriented and will include smart ML-based models with explainability, confidence intervals, and generative AI-augmented dashboards.
## Scenarios
### Classification models

- [Enron Scandal](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/enron_scandal.ipynb) Identifies Enron employees who may have committed fraud

- [Property Maintenance Fines](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/property_maintenance_fines.ipynb) Predicts the probability of a set of blight tickets to be paid on time

- [Sentiment IMDB](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/sentiment_IMDB.ipynb)  Predicts positive or negative sentiments from movie reviews (NLP)


- [Spam detector](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/spam_detector.ipynb) Predicts the probability that a given email is a spam email (NLP)

- [Student Admissions](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/student_admissions.ipynb)  Predicts student admissions to graduate school at UCLA

- [Titanic](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/titanic.ipynb)  Predicts survival probabilities from the sinking of the RMS Titanic

### Regression models

- [Bike Rental](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/bike_rental.ipynb) Predicts daily bike rental ridership

- [House Prices](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/house_prices.ipynb) Predicts house sales prices from Ames Housing database

- [Simple tickets](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/simple_tickets.ipynb)  Predicts the number of tickets requested by different clients


### Recurrent models

- [Machine Translation](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/machine_translation.ipynb)  Translates sentences from English to French (NLP)

- [Simple Stock Prediction](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/simple_stock_prediction.ipynb) Predicts Alphabet Inc. stock price

- [Text generator](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/text_generator.ipynb) Creates an English language sequence generator (NLP)

### Social network models

- [Network](https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras/blob/master/notebooks/network.ipynb)  Predicts missing salaries and new email connections from a company's email network


## Setup & Usage
*Python 3.11+ required*

1. Clone the repository using `git`:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/angelmtenor/data-science-keras.git
```

2. Enter to the root path of the repo and use or create a new conda environment:

```bash
$ conda create -n dev python=3.11 -y && conda activate dev
```

3. Install the package developed as a helper for this repo:
```bash
pip install ds-boost
```

4. Open the desired project/s with [Jupyter Notebook](http://jupyter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html)
```bash
cd data-science-keras
jupyter notebook
```

## Development Mode
In the root folder of the cloned repository, install all the required dev packages and the ds-boost mini package (**Make** required):
```bash
make setup
```

To install tensorflow with GPU support, follow the instructions of this guide: [Install TensorFlow GPU](https://www.tensorflow.org/install/pip#install_cuda_with_apt).

QA (manual pre-commit):
```bash
make qa
```

###  Development Tools Required:

**A Container/Machine with Conda, Git and Poetry as closely as defined in `.devcontainer/Dockerfile`:**

- This Dockerfile contains a non-root user so the same configuration can be applied to a WSL Ubuntu Machine and any Debian/Ubuntu CLoud Machine (Vertex AI workbench, Azure VM ...)
- In case of having an Ubuntu/Debian machine with non-root user (e.g.: Ubuntu in WSL, Vertex AI VM ...), just install the tools from  *non-root user (no sudo)** section of `.devcontainer/Dockerfile`  (sudo apt-get install \<software\> may be required)
- A pre-configured Cloud VM usually has Git and Conda pre-installed, those steps can be skipped
- The development container defined in `.devcontainer/Dockerfile` can be directly used for a fast setup (Docker required).  With Visual Studio Code, just open the root folder of this repo, press `F1` and select the option **Dev Containers: Open Workspace in Container**. The container will open the same workspace after the Docker Image is built.


## Contributing

Check out the contributing guidelines

## License

`ds_boost` was created by Angel Martinez-Tenor. It is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.

## Credits

`ds_boost` was created from a Data Science Template developed by Angel Martinez-Tenor. The template was built upon `py-pkgs-cookiecutter` [template] (https://github.com/py-pkgs/py-pkgs-cookiecutter)
